0 There is less incentive to vote strategically in proportional systems.
1 First-past-the-post encourages strategic voting.
2 I feel that politically similar parties should have to merge in order to gain a more proportional percentage of seats.
3 Between 2011 and 2015, I felt that the Liberal's underrepresentation in parliament was unfair.
4 If Canada reforms it's electoral system, it should be to one less susceptible to strategic voting.
5 I think Canada would be worse off if we had only two parties.
6 A party that receives less than 50% of the vote does not have a mandate to form a majority government.
7 Under a system of proportional representation, parties have less to gain by engaging in voter suppression of their political opponents.
8 Those who support overrepresented parties are more likely to oppose electoral reform.
9 Those who support underrepresented parties are more likely to support electoral reform.
10 I am under 40 years old.
11 Maintaining the anonymity of the secret ballot is more important to me than the convenience of voting online.
12 I have written to one or many members of parliament regarding my opinions on electoral reform.
13 I watch parliament's question period regularly.
14 I have read the entirety of the report of the Special committee on Electoral Reform.
15 I would like ballots to be more expressive than "select one candidate".
16 If given the choice, I would vote sincerely. But under our current system, I feel compelled to vote strategically.
17 I can explain specifically how the Gallagher Index works.
18 I understand what the Gallagher Index does.
19 I am more interested by an individual's beliefs than by their identity.
20 I am more concerned with federal-level issues than with issues of my particular riding.
21 I consider myself as a person with a disability.
22 Schools need to teach more critical thought, so citizens may more closely examine political platforms/arguments & hold officials to account
23 Political education is an important element in schooling
24 I believe our current electoral system has helped making our democracy one of the most stable in the world.
25 I often educate myself on my local candidates.
26 I usually just vote based on party.
27 I have the time and interest to research many candidates.
28 I am more concerned with my province's interests than my specific district's.
29 Sometimes I disagree with a candidate or party so much that I will vote for anyone else.
30 I like to educate myself on my local candidates.
31 It's important to me to deal with an MP from a national party that I support on local and personal issues.
32 I want to be able to vote against candidates I disagree with.
33 Region-specific issues and perspectives would be obscured by larger districts.
34 I think electoral reform should be decided by a randomly selected citizens' assembly.
35 I think all parties have self-interest biases.
36 I think a "citizens' assembly" is a good way to represent the whole electorate.
37 I think we should consider Score/Approval voting systems (also known as "range voting" systems).
38 Many Canadians don’t vote because they feel a sense of apathy towards their government and politics in general.
39 It’s important to increase voter education.
40 It is important to support increased youth participation in politics.
41 Voting is too hard for people with disabilities.
42 I prefer to vote based on my principles, rather than try to vote strategically to minimize downside effects of my vote.
43 I always vote.
44 I think mandatory voting should be implemented.
45 I think there should be incentives for voting.
46 I think there should be a voting holiday.
47 I always feel like my vote is important.
48 My vote is wasted under the current electoral system and so I often choose not to vote.
49 We need better educational systems in place to inform voters on important issues.
50 It’s important that the Canadian government collect and assess the political opinions of Canadians in an open and transparent manner before making important decisions.
51 I am pleased with the current electoral system.
52 Our current electoral system has served Canadians well for decades and is efficient.
53 The current electoral system results in more stable governance (ie: more majority governments which can serve a full term).

54 If we used a system with proportional representation, the opinions would be too strongly divided and nothing would ever get done.
55 I would like Canada to implement an online voting system.
56 The current electoral system strengthens the dominance of the two major political parties, the Conservative Party and the Liberal Party.

57 Electoral reform is a divisive issue and I don’t think a referendum is required in order to better gauge the true opinions of Canadians.
58 I wouldn’t trust online voting systems and would prefer to cast my ballot in person.
59 The government needs to engage in more discussions with all citizens.
60 It is important to achieve broad support of all Canadians before moving forward with procedures for electoral reform.
61 The current electoral system leads to increased voter apathy and poor participation.
62 I would like to vote for a non-partisan MP, but feel like my vote would be wasted.
63 I believe a party’s share of seats in the House of Commons should reflect its share of the popular vote.

64 The current electoral system does not represent voter preferences accurately and should be changed.
65 The voting process is intimidating. I don’t even understand why I would vote for different candidates.

66 I am worried about security issues with online voting.
67 The allocation of seats in the House of Commons should better reflect the popular vote.

68 For online voting, I think we should base our decisions & timelines on the professional opinions of those in the digital security community.
69 I think we can and should come up with a cheaper and better way to run referendum-like national gut-checks.
70 I think a system involving proportional representation for perhaps 10% of parliamentary seats could be an improvement.
71 I think a healthy system could involve giving groups too small to gain a voice (for example, Northern and Aboriginal communities), more seats than their small proportion.
72 I have a good understanding of alternative electoral systems.
73 I can explain the way our current electoral system works to a five year old.
74 The voting age should be lowered to 16.
75 I think my vote is wasted under the current electoral system.
76 Proportional representation will reduce hyper-partisanship and promote greater collaboration and cooperation between parties.
77 Proportional representation ensures support of government policies by the broadest segment of Canadians- at the very least, a true majority
78 Proportional representation will reduce wild policy swings and result in more long-lasting policies with a view to the future.
79 Proportional voting systems can be designed to provide both local representation and a Parliament that reflects Canadian diversity.
80 Governments are not accountable when most votes cast elect no-one and there are so many "safe" ridings under our current FPTP system
81 Winner-take-all systems (such as FPTP)reward regional parties, whose support is concentrated within a geographical area, with extra seats.
82 Fairness should be a high priority in any voting system.
83 Given how over budget Phoenix Pay is, as one example, the federal government probably isn't ready to correctly implement online voting.
84 There should not be a huge variance in the number of votes that each party needs to secure a seat in Parliament. All votes should be equal.
85 Negotiations between parties to achieve a coalition government are more transparent than those between various factions in big tent parties.
86 Big tent parties may have a diverse membership but all policy-making is filtered to achieve party goals.
87 Voters want to be able to choose parties that offer distinct choices.  Under FPTP, apparent differences are too often only cosmetic.
88 Parties should be a tool to help MPs be effective representatives of their constituents but often see MPs only as their representatives.
89 A single MP cannot represent the government policy concerns of every constituent in his or her riding.
90 At present, no online voting system is immune to hacking, and therefore, is too risky for elections that matter.
91 MPs in multi-member proportional ridings are more accountable to constituents because they face greater competition to be elected.
92 I'd rather have a MP in multi-member proportional riding that I voted for than a MP in a single-member riding that I did not vote for.
93 Innovative ideas or proposals often seem radical or extreme until adopted by the mainstream.
94 Minority rights must be protected by Parliament.
95 Ranked ballots provide real choices for voters if they are used in a proportional voting system.
96 Winner-take-all voting systems (such as FPTP) encourage "dog-whistle" politics and pandering to swing voters with short-sighted policies.
97 I think we need to develop a proper national "digital identity system" before we can consider implementing online voting.
98 I understand how single transferable vote (STV) works.
99 I understand how mixed-member proportional representation works.
100 I want a fairer system than FPTP but not one in which MPs are appointed from a party list not selected by the public.
101 I live in an urban (not a rural) area
102 Ballots should just show the candidates' names, not their parties, like they used to
103 It's unacceptable to compromise on either the secret ballot or the verifiability of elections even if it would making voting more convenient
104 I find it confuses the conversation when people misuse "ranked ballots" as a euphemism for "instant runoff voting"
105 The party I most recently supported federally would benefit from the reform I would like to see.
106 'Representative democracies' without PR often don't have real democracy, as parties can take complete control with a minority of the vote
107 It should always be clear which party is accountable for decisions made by government, even if this means decisions are only made by 1 party
108 Mandatory voting requirements will reduce the incentive for parties to  pander to extremist values
109 There should be parties in Parliament that represent the views of all Canadians, even if some are radical or extreme.
110 I think many of the comments here are difficult to vote on.
111 I am eligible to vote in Canada.
112 I think that a good consultation tool/process, be it digital or in-person, should allow participants (not just moderators) to shape conversation.
113 Our current electoral voting system can be improved in a way that can better represent Canada's diversity of opinions.
